Add section on Build Platform Operations track to future directions (#818)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec/v1.0/future-directions.md

</section>

<section id="build-systems-track">

> ## Build Systems track

Reviewer: I feel like the comments are focused around operational hardening of the platform and its administration. I don't know if something like a `Operations track` would have a clear message. The ultimate final name can be finalized later, but I agree that "Build Systems" or "Build Platform" would likely be confusing with the "Build" track.

I see all of the SLSA specifications as relating to some part of the software supply chain lifecycle, so `build` is often an inherent or implied characteristic.

> ## Build Systems track

Reviewer 2: Given the move to "Build platform" with PR #810, wouldn't it make sense to call the current track "Build platform" rather than just "Build" and the future track @mattfarina proposes "Build system"? The two are clearly related and this would also be more in keeping with what the SLSA 0.1 introduced I think.

> ## Build Systems track

Author: I'm going to suggest "Build Platform Operations" as the name. Build at the start because the specification doesn't appear to say that it's only for the creation of artifacts. Operations or Infrastructure alone could be extrapolated to general terms.

> ## Build Systems track

Reviewer 3: I'm good with the new name for now, since it only lives in future directions. If/when we make this an actual track, I think we'll want to think more carefully about how we name it.

In particular, the original name "common" was used because those requirements applied to all trusted platforms, including Source, Build, and Package. I suspect we'll want to carry this same concept forward once we have a Source track (and thus the source control platform comes into scope), and we may also want to extend it to trusted components of the Package Ecosystem.

> wouldn't it make sense to call the current track "Build platform" rather than just "Build" and the future track @mattfarina proposes "Build system"?

I'd prefer to keep short names, "Build L3" is OK, "Build Platform L3" is a mouthful. Also, the current "Build" track does cover aspects of the platform, particularly isolation and provenance generation. What is covered by the new Build Platform Operations are things that are not specific to build systems.

> ## Build Systems track

Reviewer: +1. I was about to say something similar. I suspect that patterns will arise when new tracks start to be proposed -- and that those patterns might (fortunately for brevity and unfortunately for preciseness) follow a one-word naming convention.

A Build Systems track could provide assurances around the hardening of build
systems.

The initial [draft version (v0.1)] of SLSA included a section on
[common requirements](../v0.1/requirements.md#common-requirements) that formed
the foundation of the guidance for
[verifying build systems](verifying-systems.md), which **may or may not** form
the basis for a future Build Systems track:

> -   Controls for access to build infrastructure and secrets along with records
>     when access is used.
> -   Systems meet a to be determined set of security practices to minimize the
>     attack surface.
> -   How cryptographic secrets used by the build system are stored and managed.

Reviewer 3: Some suggestions to make the bullets easier to read (parallel construction, additional punctuation, word choice) as well as expanding a bit on what is intended here. Feel free to edit or to reject some of the changes.

```suggestion
-   Controls for approval, logging, and auditing of all physical and remote
    access to platform infrastructure, cryptographic secrets, and privileged
    debugging interfaces.
-   Conformance to security best practices to minimize the risk of compromise.
-   Protection of cryptographic secrets used by the build platform.
```
